So, with all the features that came onto
the smart phone there were so many things
that you could do with the smart phone and
people almost forgot that this was
a phone, it's meant for voice.
The most successful app,
in this context, is SMS,
short message services.
It is kind of like an email,
in the internet world,
in the sense it is
a store-and-forward service for
purely text between two users.
The SMS Excel it uses the SS7
control plane that we talked before
and because we are leveraging
SS7 links for sending
information to the device, but
not to another network element.
They had to restrict
themselves to 140 bytes for
the payload that is all the information.
Just to have some space for the headers.
And since you didn't have to set up the
data plane to actually carry your voice.
You coul send this information very,
very cheap.
There was 1000 X markup
in delivering an SMS.
So, if you're looking at trillions of
text messages that are sent across.
That thousand x mark-up you can see
that this is a billion dollar business.
Of 15% of global SMS are actually
commercial messages.
And the Twitter is essentially
is an SMS kind of service,
what you post still goes to your server.
But from the server,
instead of going to just another user,
you broadcast it to a group of users.
So as an app, Twitter gets the credit for
giving the capability to
everybody to blog with just a cell
phone during the Arab Spring.
WhatsApp is another non-voice,
text-based app.
Instead of building it on SS7 it was
built ground-up using Internet protocols,
TCP/IP, and presence, and
presence and the advantage was,
if a cell phone user already had
data access like smartphones,
they're not paying the carriers for
SMS anymore.
They, all the messaging that they use,
essentially becomes free,
because they are paying just one price for
the data.
Where I am going with all of this is,
there were so many other applications,
other than voice, and
voice still is the key application, but
you could, take pictures and
share them with a large group of people.
Something that started in college
campuses to share pictures,
grew into one of the big social media
happenings in the internet of things.
Netflix.
You have different kinds of
players providing the video
content to the users on multiple screens.
The camera plays a big role
on applications like YouTube,
you can take the picture
anywhere you want, crime scenes,
special happenings, and
then post them to YouTube.
And now you have, almost like
you are on broadcast network, so
many people can share the content.
So, in this context, that the cellphone
has so many different capabilities.
The operating systems
become really critical.
And there were many many OS
battles that happened before.
Right now, we are pretty much settled
on IOS, Windows, Android, and
maybe even Linux, and we are going
to be covering some aspects of
all of these OS in our upcoming courses.
The main thing for you when you
choose an operating system is,
you need to keep in mind what are the
applications that you want to develop.
And if the operating system
provides the right hooks to all
the sensors that you want to access,
or maybe you would be adding
yourself to the smartphone platform,
and we will be carrying you
through some of these things.
And most of these operating systems,
they're also providing
really powerful integrated
development environments for
there app development,
so that's a good thing for
us going forward.